---
slugFields:
  - createdDate
  - title
uuid: sjs2imd_y_
title: My Prayer
isBlogPost: false
author: Freda Hanbury Allen
createdDate: 2024-12-19
slug: my-prayer
---
That I may know Him, "—Father grant the longing\
That burns within me as a quenchless fire;\
For in these words what wondrous depths lie hidden,\
Embracing all I need or can desire.

"That I may know *Him*"—*this* is life eternal,\
Not to possess a gift apart from One\
Who is the Fount from which all true life springeth,\
And Whom to know is Heaven on earth begun.

"That I may *know* Him," —not in name or theory,\
This brings no power to stand amid earth's strife,\
Nay; I would know Him as the living Saviour,\
The very strength and centre of my life.


"That I may know Him," in His resurrection,\
Triumphant over sin and Satan's power;\
May know Him as He ever intercedeth,\
Upholding thus His saints through each dark hour.

"That I may know Him,"—Lord, I would not shun it,\
The drinking of that cup He drank for me,\
The sacred fellowship with Him in suffering,\
The dark night-vigil in Gethsemane.

For they who share His sufferings, share His glory;\
To them His purposes of love are shown\
They are entrusted with His sacred service ;\
They "reign in life " with Him upon His throne .

That I may know Him"—nothing less I covet,\
Nought else can ever meet my soul's deep need;\
One glimpse of what He is in all His beauty,\
From lesser seeking hath my spirit freed.

"That I may know Him," Lord, I wait before Thee,\
Grant the petition of my heart, I pray;\
Until the day dawn, " and in all His glory,\
I know Him as He knoweth me for aye.

"That I may know Him,"—lo, His answer falleth,\
I hear His promise "Thou *shalt* know the Lord"\
Rejoicing now I rest my soul upon it,\
For never will my Lord deny His word.
