---
slugFields:
  - createdDate
  - title
uuid: jwrd0552ks
title: Others
isBlogPost: false
author: Freda Hanbury Allen
createdDate: 2025-10-01
slug: others
---
> "He saved others; Himself He cannot save..."\
> — Matthew 27:42a

Spoken by the crowd, deriding,\
To the blessed Lord,\
Yet what depth of truth lay hidden\
In the taunting word.

"He saved others,"—yes, for truly\
To that end He came,\
Thirty years He toiled with others,\
Bore an unknown name.

Three short years of ceaseless service,\
Healing day by day\
Sin-sick souls, and suffering bodies\
Thronging round His way.

Saving others, while aweary\
Sat He by the well,\
Still His lips of Living Waters\
Must the thirsty tell.

Saving others, tho’ in slumber\
Sought He brief repose,\
At the anguished cry "Lord, save us,"\
Straightway He arose.

Saving others, when the desert\
And its peace He sought,\
There to find a throng awaiting\
Eager to be taught.

Thus throughout His earthly journey\
Was His life laid down,\
Till the awful cross of Calvary\
Was its seal and crown.

"He saved others," yet His own life\
Could he never save,—\
_Could not_, brethren, for He _would not_,\
Thus Himself He gave.

Had He saved Himself, we never\
Had salvation known,\
Death and darkness _then_ our portion,\
_Now_ to share His throne.

Would we follow in His footsteps?\
In His service share?\
Then for us it standeth written\
We His cross must bear.

He who seeks his life to save it,\
He shall suffer loss:\
He who spends his life for Christ’s sake,\
Finds it thro’ the cross.

"He saved others,"—may it echo\
In our hearts each day,\
‘Till His love all selfish pleasing\
Purge for aye away.

Till possessed with holy passion\
Other lives to save,\
We partake His life and Spirit\
Who “_so_ loved He _gave_.”
